# World Happiness Index
The global happiness index is calculated using a report that is published once a year by the United Nations, which measures the degree of happiness and well-being of residents in different countries of the world, based on factors related to quality of life. 
The index is based on a survey in which the respondents are asked to rate their lives on a scale of 1-10 in relation to the ideal life in their opinion, in questions related to the degree of help they receive from the state in times of need, the degree of freedom that exists in their country and the level of corruption in it. During the examination of the results of the happiness index for 2020, we saw that Israel was ranked very high - 14 out of 151 countries. This rating raised the question for us of how to explain the gap between the reality of life here which sometimes seems impossible, a reality full of conflicts, pressures and tensions, and the fact that the residents of Israel are happier than most of the residents of the world. As mentioned above, the index is based on subjective questions asked of respondents from different countries in the world - while our goal in the project was to better understand which objective factors, at the level of the country and not at the level of the individual, affect the degree of happiness of the residents of the country. Therefore, in this project, we investigated various characteristics of countries around the world in order to understand how they affect the happiness index value of each country. The project aims to raise the awareness of governments to the factors that are related to the happiness and well-being of the residents in their country, thus improving their quality of life. For the purpose of carrying out the project, we collected data about the countries of the world that touch on various aspects, such as the size of the population, life expectancy, the suicide rate and GNP per capita. After understanding the data, we prepared the data for modeling with the help of handling exceptions, completing missing values, unifying categories, normalizing the data and selecting characteristics. At the end of the data preparation phase, we arrived at a data set that includes 8 characteristics and 148 countries. We clustered the different countries using two algorithms (hierarchical clustering and k-means clustering) and examined their results. The final cluster divided the countries into four clusters that separate well and have meaning both the values of the characteristics of the countries in each cluster and the values of the happiness index of the countries in each cluster. With the help of the cluster and the characteristics that led each country to belong to each cluster, it is possible to draw conclusions about the factors affecting the well-being of the residents in the country and to understand in which areas resources should be invested in order to improve the value of the happiness index. To continue this work, we propose to carry out sensitivity analyzes for each country, which will help countries that wish to increase the happiness index or maintain their existing happiness index, to develop a strategy for this purpose. That is, it is possible to check which change in characteristics can cause the country to move from the cluster in which it is It is in another cluster.
